LBWSG 2019 exposure: Explain how to fix GBD's bad prevalence data (#582)
ihmeuw/vivarium_research: docs/source/gbd2019_models/risk_exposures/low_birthweight_short_gestation/index.rst

    (sex_id=[1,2]) since we will be initializing our population using GBD's
    population data and stratifying by sex.

Correcting LBWSG exposure data pulled from GBD 2019
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. important::

>   **The GBD 2019 exposure data for Low Birthweight and Short Gestation is wrong!**

Reviewer: No need to be alarmist... we didn't publish the wrong value, we just stored the data in way that leads to confusion

Author: @aflaxman Do you want me to edit this somehow?  I just wanted to call the SWEs' attention to the fact that we need to fix the data before we use it.

Author: Also, how do you know we didn't publish the wrong value?

Reviewer: I don't know for sure... but I'm sensitive to how this might appear if taken out of context.  I'll propose an edit
```suggestion
  **The GBD 2019 exposure data for Low Birthweight and Short Gestation is potentially misleading as currently stored!**
```

Author: Ok, I'll reword this. I'm also adding a Todo to add more details about the problem, to address Ali's question above.

  Namely, the prevalences of the LBWSG categories returned by ``get_draws`` do **not** add up to 1! To fix the problem, follow these steps:

  1.  Drop rows of the exposure data with ``'parameter' == 'cat125'`` (these
      are precisely the rows with ``'modelable_entity_id' == NaN``). cat125 is
      not a modeled category but rather a residual category automatically added
      by ``get_draws`` because the prevalences that the LBWSG modelers gave to
      central comp did not add up to 1 in each draw.

> 

Reviewer 2: how large is the exposure in this residual category? is it close to negligible or is it a substantial proportion of total exposure?

Author: If I remember correctly from last December, I think it was at most around 10% for Kenya (haven't checked other countries yet). When I have a chance, I can dig into the data a bit more and make another PR that explains this data issue in more detail.

      category_cols = ['modelable_entity_id', 'parameter']
      index_cols = exposure.columns.difference(draw_cols)
      sum_index = index_cols.difference(category_cols)
      # Add prevalences over categories (indexed by meid and/or parameter) to get denominator for rescaling
      prevalence_sum = exposure.groupby(sum_index.to_list())[draw_cols].sum()
      # Divide prevalences by total to rescale them to add to 1, and reset index to put df back in original form
      exposure = exposure.set_index(index_cols.to_list()) / prevalence_sum
      exposure.reset_index(inplace=True)
      return exposure

    lbwsg_exposure = rescale_prevalence(lbwsg_exposure)

.. _rescale_prevalence_function: https://github.com/ihmeuw/vivarium_research_lsff/blob/919a68814a0b9bc838a7e74e424545b3d2b7e48c/nanosim_models/lbwsg.py#L220

.. _lbwsg module: https://github.com/ihmeuw/vivarium_research_lsff/blob/main/nanosim_models/lbwsg.py

.. note::

  We should double-check with the LBWSG modelers that rescaling the prevalences
  is a reasonable way to adjust the GBD data for use in our simulations.

.. _details of GBD 2019 LBWSG exposure data issue:

.. todo::

>   Add more details about this data issue, e.g.:

Author: @aflaxman I added this new Todo -- could you take a look to make sure my description of the GBD data issue sounds ok?

Reviewer: 👍
